README.md, before:

# Micro Numeric Display Project

Print data to 7-segment micro-numeric indicator chip with Teensy microcontroller

## Overview

The included custom library [*micro7seg.h*](src/src/micro7seg.h) provides Arduino framework support for controlling [QDSP-6064](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/retired/12710) micro-numeric indicator chips.

![Example Runtime](images/micro_numeric_display_runtime.gif)

The library is designed for flexibility with respect to intermediate stages of circuitry driving the chip. In this example project, the chip is driven using a [74HC595 8-bit Shift Register](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/texas-instruments/SN74HC595N/277246) and four [2N3904 NPN transistors](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/rochester-electronics-llc/2N3904/11554806).

## Usage

With this library, the micro-numeric indicator chip is accessed using the *print( )* method. The operation shown above is the result of example code:

```cpp
display.print("dead");
delay(500);
display.print("beef");
delay(500);
for (uint16_t i = 0; i < 0xFFFF; i++) {
    display.print(i);
    delay(50);
}
```

Printing of character strings extends to printing the symbol '-', and also use of '.' to illuminate built-in decimal point for each digit of the display.

Initilization of the class requires an array of pointers to three user-defined functions which define IO setup, IO pin arrangement relative to each segment of each digit, and IO selection of each digit. Specific details regarding these function formats are included in [*micro7seg.h*](src/src/micro7seg.h).

```cpp
void (*micro7SegIOBind[3])(uint8_t) = {
    &micro7SegBegin,
    &micro7SegLatchData,
    &micro7SegCCSelect
};
```

This way, the class is abstracted from any custom circuitry intended for driving the chip, and is not limited to the circuit schematic used in this example.

For the display to function properly, a call to the method *refresh( )* must be made often enough to prevent noticeable flickering (e.g. every 2.5ms). Automatic refresh may be accomplished with interrupts directly, or using any preferred [Timer class](https://github.com/luni64/TeensyTimerTool).

```cpp
TeensyTimerTool::PeriodicTimer refreshTimer;
...
refreshTimer.begin(refreshDisplay, REFRESH_INTERVAL_US / 4);
...
void refreshDisplay() {
    display.refresh();
}
```

## Schematic

The schematic for this project and associated CAD files are included as composed in KiCad 5.

![Schematic](images/micro_numeric_display_schematic.png)

This is implemented in breadboarded format, using the Teensy 3.1 microcontroller.

![Breadboard](images/micro-numeric-display_photo.jpg)

## License

MIT © 2021 John Greenwell

Commit message:

Add reference to new driver in readme

README.md, after:

# Micro Numeric Display Project

Print data to 7-segment micro-numeric indicator chip with Teensy microcontroller

## Overview

__NOTE__: The driver in this test project is out of date. For the upgraded, HAL-mediated version of this micro numeric display driver, reference the dedicated repository [micro7seg](https://github.com/johnmgreenwell/micro7seg).

The included custom library [*micro7seg.h*](src/src/micro7seg.h) provides Arduino framework support for controlling [QDSP-6064](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/retired/12710) micro-numeric indicator chips.

![Example Runtime](images/micro_numeric_display_runtime.gif)

The library is designed for flexibility with respect to intermediate stages of circuitry driving the chip. In this example project, the chip is driven using a [74HC595 8-bit Shift Register](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/texas-instruments/SN74HC595N/277246) and four [2N3904 NPN transistors](https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/rochester-electronics-llc/2N3904/11554806).

## Usage

With this library, the micro-numeric indicator chip is accessed using the *print( )* method. The operation shown above is the result of example code:

```cpp
display.print("dead");
delay(500);
display.print("beef");
delay(500);
for (uint16_t i = 0; i < 0xFFFF; i++) {
    display.print(i);
    delay(50);
}
```

Printing of character strings extends to printing the symbol '-', and also use of '.' to illuminate built-in decimal point for each digit of the display.

Initilization of the class requires an array of pointers to three user-defined functions which define IO setup, IO pin arrangement relative to each segment of each digit, and IO selection of each digit. Specific details regarding these function formats are included in [*micro7seg.h*](src/src/micro7seg.h).

```cpp
void (*micro7SegIOBind[3])(uint8_t) = {
    &micro7SegBegin,
    &micro7SegLatchData,
    &micro7SegCCSelect
};
```

This way, the class is abstracted from any custom circuitry intended for driving the chip, and is not limited to the circuit schematic used in this example.

For the display to function properly, a call to the method *refresh( )* must be made often enough to prevent noticeable flickering (e.g. every 2.5ms). Automatic refresh may be accomplished with interrupts directly, or using any preferred [Timer class](https://github.com/luni64/TeensyTimerTool).

```cpp
TeensyTimerTool::PeriodicTimer refreshTimer;
...
refreshTimer.begin(refreshDisplay, REFRESH_INTERVAL_US / 4);
...
void refreshDisplay() {
    display.refresh();
}
```

## Schematic

The schematic for this project and associated CAD files are included as composed in KiCad 5.

![Schematic](images/micro_numeric_display_schematic.png)

This is implemented in breadboarded format, using the Teensy 3.1 microcontroller.

![Breadboard](images/micro-numeric-display_photo.jpg)

## License

MIT © 2021 John Greenwell
